---
id: "version-0.3.0-cloud.k8s.clusterinfo.registryurl"
title: "k8s.ClusterInfo.registryUrl property"
hide_title: true
parent_id: "version-0.3.0-api/cloud/cloud.k8s"
original_id: "cloud.k8s.clusterinfo.registryurl"
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Cloud API Overview](overview) &gt; [@adpt/cloud](./cloud.md) &gt; [k8s](./cloud.k8s.md) &gt; [ClusterInfo](./cloud.k8s.clusterinfo.md) &gt; [registryUrl](./cloud.k8s.clusterinfo.registryurl.md)

## k8s.ClusterInfo.registryUrl property

URL or string to which Docker images used by the cluster in `kubeconfig` should be pushed and pulled

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
registryUrl?: string | DockerSplitRegistryInfo;
```

## Remarks

If `registryUrl` is a string, it is assumed that the cluster can pull from the same string that outsiders can push to.

If `registryUrl` is of the form `{ external: string, internal: string }` then the `external` string will be used to push images, and the `internal` string will be used to pull images.

Note(manishv) This is a bit of a hack to allow one hostname or IP address to push images from outside a particular environment (say k8s) and a different URL for that environment to pull images.

A good example of this is a k3s-dind (k3s docker-in-docker) instance of kubernetes where a private registry is running on a docker network attached to the k3s-dind instance, but where we want to push [docker.LocalDockerImage](./cloud.docker.localdockerimage.md) built images to that registry. Since [LocalDockerImage](./cloud.docker.localdockerimage.md) is outside the k3s-dind environment, it must use a host accessible network to push to the registry. However, since the k3s-dind instance sees the registry from within Docker, it must use a different address to pull the images for use.

Once network scopes are fully supported, this interface will change to whatever is appropriate. It is best if you can arrange to have the same URL or registry string work for all access regardless of which network the registry, Adapt host, and ultimate container running environment uses.
