---
id: "version-0.2.0-core.adapt.relation"
title: "Adapt.Relation interface"
hide_title: true
parent_id: "version-0.2.0-api/core/core.adapt"
original_id: "core.adapt.relation"
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Core API Overview](overview) &gt; [@adpt/core](./core.md) &gt; [Adapt](./core.adapt.md) &gt; [Relation](./core.adapt.relation.md)

## Adapt.Relation interface

Relations are used to describe the logic of when an object will be ready.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface Relation 
```

## Remarks

Relations are primarily used to describe deployment dependencies in Adapt. They can be combined together to express boolean logic, so you can express things like "A is ready when B and C are ready":

Relations should usually be created using the supplied library functions. The most commonly used Relation functions are the high-level functions. The high-level Relation functions interact with the Adapt deployment engine for determining whether components have been deployed. These functions are useful in a [Component.dependsOn](./core.component.dependson.md) method for describing what a component depends on.

Examples of the more commonly used high-level Relation functions are: - `Only()` - Creates a `Relation` that is ready when a single dependency has been deployed. - `AllOf()` - Creates a `Relation` that's ready when all of a given set of dependencies have been deployed. - `AnyOf()` - Creates a `Relation` that's ready when any of a given set of dependencies have been deployed.

Examples of low-level Relation functions are: - `True()` - Creates a `Relation` that's always ready. - `False()` - Creates a `Relation` will never be ready. - `And()` - Creates a `Relation` that becomes ready when all of its arguments are ready. - `Edge()` - Creates a `Relation` that checks the deployment status of an object to determine readiness.

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [description](./core.adapt.relation.description.md) | <code>string</code> |  |
|  [inverse](./core.adapt.relation.inverse.md) | <code>(relatesTo: Relation[]) =&gt; Relation</code> |  |
|  [ready](./core.adapt.relation.ready.md) | <code>(relatesTo: Relation[]) =&gt; true &#124;</code><br/><code>Waiting &#124;</code><br/><code>Waiting[]</code> |  |
|  [relatesTo](./core.adapt.relation.relatesto.md) | <code>Relation[]</code> |  |
|  [toString](./core.adapt.relation.tostring.md) | <code>(indent?: string) =&gt; string</code> |  |
