---
id: "version-0.3.0-core.adapt.deployedwhenmethod"
title: "Adapt.DeployedWhenMethod type"
hide_title: true
parent_id: "version-0.3.0-api/core/core.adapt"
original_id: "core.adapt.deployedwhenmethod"
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Core API Overview](overview) &gt; [@adpt/core](./core.md) &gt; [Adapt](./core.adapt.md) &gt; [DeployedWhenMethod](./core.adapt.deployedwhenmethod.md)

## Adapt.DeployedWhenMethod type

A function that gives information about whether an Element has finished deploying.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export declare type DeployedWhenMethod = (goalStatus: GoalStatus, helpers: DeployHelpers) => WaitStatus | Promise<WaitStatus>;
```

## Remarks

Components may provide a custom `deployedWhen` method to directly control when the component can be considered fully deployed. For class-based components, see [Component.deployedWhen](./core.component.deployedwhen.md)<!-- -->. For function components, see [useDeployedWhen()](./core.usedeployedwhen.md)<!-- -->.

During a deployment operation, an Element's `deployedWhen` function will be executed by the system to determine if the Element has reached its `goalStatus`<!-- -->. The provided function will \*\*not\*\* be called until after all of the component's dependencies have been met, but then may be polled repeatedly.

An example use of a `deployedWhen` function might be to have a component be considered deployed once any one of its children are deployed.

A `deployedWhen` function can also be used to check external resources, such as with a CLI command or via an API or network call. For example, if your component deploys a network service, its `deployedWhen` method could make a network request to the service and return `true` (deployed) once it connects successfully to the service.

Important: A `deployedWhen` function should always check the `goalStatus` parameter to determine whether the component is being deployed or destroyed and modify its behavior accordingly. For example, if your `deployedWhen` calls an API function to confirm a resource has been created when `goalStatus` is `GoalStatus.Deployed`<!-- -->, then when `goalStatus` is `GoalStatus.Destroyed`<!-- -->, you may need to call an API function to confirm that the resource has been deleted.

For components that do not add a custom `deployedWhen` method, the default behavior is that a component becomes deployed when all of it's successors and children have been deployed. See [defaultDeployedWhen()](./core.defaultdeployedwhen.md) for more information.
